
# Cross Platform Mobile UI Test Automation Project
## How to run tests:

### Step-1: Install Java 1.8 , Android APK to your system and define paths.

- Install JDK from the link below and change JAVA_HOME path to your installation directory.

https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html

export JAVA_HOME=/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk1.8.0_221.jdk/Contents/Home

- Install Android SDK from the link below and change ANDROID_HOME path to your installation directory.

https://developer.android.com/studio

export ANDROID_HOME=/Users/beytullah/Library/Android/sdk


### Step-2: Install Android Emulators and Ios Simulators

- For Andorid emulators: To run test scripts on android environment, the simulators provided
 by Android Studio AVD manager can be used. After installing Andorid studio open AVD and select the 
 emulator that will be installed. 
 
- For IOS Simulators : To run test scripts on Ios environment, install XCODE to your system. Open
Developer Tools > Simulator and select Ios device simulator to be installed.

### Step-3: Run Emulators and Simulators

- To run Andorid emulators : Open Android Studio > AVS mamager > Select one of the simulators thats
already installed and click start button.

- To run Ios simulators: Open XCODE > Developer Tools > Simulators > Select the IOS simulator to be
started.

### Step-4: Install and run Appium Desktop
- Install Appium Desktop v1.14.0 to your system. open Appium Desktop and click "Start server v1.14.0".

### Step-5: Modify InitializeTest.java	
- This class contains desired capabilities for Android and IOS devices that will be used for test.

- For android devices : Open terminal and run "adb devices" command get device id of the Andorid 
simulator (e.g. emulator-5554). Change value of "udid" inside "InitializeTest.java". Check the value
 of platform version of the emulator from Andorid Studio AVD manager . If the platform version is 
 different from the value of platforVersion in InitializeTest.java change it.
 
- For Ios devices : Open XCODE > Developer Tools > Simulator and get the values for deviceName
 (e.g. iPhone 11 Pro Max) and platform version (e.g. 13.1). Update IOS desired capabilities in the
 InitializeTest.java class.
 
 ### Step-6: Run Tests:
 There are two ways of running tests:
 
- Option-1: Select the feature that you want to run inside the resource folder. Right click on the 
 feature file to be run. Click RUN
 
- Option-2: Right click on stepdefinitions/RunTest > Run. This will run all features. If you want to
 run only selected features modify the value of tags inside the RunTest (tags = {"@Tag"}). Put @Tag
 to the beginning of a feature or scenario to run.
 
  ### Step-7: See reports:
  Find autogenerated Gradle reports under test folder.

 
 #PROJECT STRUCTURE
 Two folders are created under the "test' folder namely  ‘resources’ and ‘stepdefinitions’.
 ###RESOURCES FOLDER
 - "resources" folder contains following files
    - "andoridIds.properties" file: The source ids of all mobile elements for Android devices are stored and matched to a string value in this file.
    - "iosIds.properties" file: The source ids of all mobile elements for IOS devices are stored and matched to a string value in this file.
    - "locatorTypes.properties" file: Add locator type for each mobile elemen (e.g. contentdesc ,xpath etc.)
    - ".feature" files: All Test Backgrounds, Scenarios and Scenario Outlines are written in Gherkin Syntax and they are stored in the ".feature" extended files in the resources folder.Test Scenarios can be tagged with "@" symbol which allows testers to select and run specific type/group of tests.All parameterised expressions should be written between quotation marks (“ ”).These parameters are mapped inside either the "androidIds.properties" file or "iosIds.properties" file.
  Gherkin syntax allows to use domain-specific language in a Given, When, Then format. The Given-When-Then syntax forces to think about ;
 the current state of the system (the Given),
 the action that is taken on the system (the When), and
 the resulting behavior of the system (the Then).
        - 1-Gherkin-Directory.feature: All gherkin samples are listed in the file. Before drafting a new 
    gherkin sentence, lookup this list to prevent duplication.
        - Regression features: Feature files of previous sprint placed here. Check mobile element as
        attribute of these elements can be change through development. 
 
 ###STEPDEFINITONS FOLDER
 - "stepdefinitions" folder contains following java classes (files);
    - ElementUtils.java :	helper methods
    - RestfulAPI.java : contanins a step defiition capable of sending API requests
    - InitializeTest.java   :	Defining global variables and desired capabilities for Android and iOS devices
    - LocatorMethods.java : has method helping to locate mobile elements 
    - RandomValueGenerator	Contains methods to create random values for test purposes
    - RunTest.java  :	Includes cucumber options to run test and reporting
    - StepDefinitions.java  :	glue codes
    - testData.java : sends sql commands to db. Leaved it here just in case.
    - TouchActions.java :	helper methods
 

 
                                                                       

# cross-platform-mobile-test
